## Localization of CCI application

## Overview
There are 3 key steps to localize CCI application.
1. **Desktop Design Tools**: A livecode cross platform application which is used to create a _Pubbly_ project in order to generate content, add animations, images, videos which can then be exported as _.zip_ file.
2. **Pubbly Web Console**: The content that is exported by _Desktop Pubbly application_ is uploaded on _Pubbly Web Console application_ and then updated or replicated to create new content. This application is used to organize the assets and create a  _.xml_ file along with the assets and _.html_ files that can be downloaded and used in the _Cordova Project_.
3. **Cordova Project**: The downloaded content from _Pubbly Web Console application_ is then placed in _www_ folder of Cordova Project.

### Desktop Design Tools
Install the [executable file](https://github.com/XPRIZE/GLEXP-Team-CCI/blob/master/Desktop%20design%20tools/Windows/Pubbly%20Installer.exe) and use _Desktop Pubbly application_ to create content. Export the project and upload the _.zip_ files to _Pubbly Web Console application_. For creating content in _Desktop Pubbly application_ you can refer [this](https://github.com/PubblyDevelopment/pubbly_design_tools#designers)

### Pubbly Web Console
After building the _Pubbly Web Console application_ on localhost which can be done by following the instructions in [Build instructions.txt](https://github.com/XPRIZE/GLEXP-Team-CCI/blob/master/Web%20console/Build%20instructions.txt), follow the bellow instructions:
1. Navigate to http://localhost:8080/Web%20console/html/login.php.
2. Register yourself as a user of _Pubbly Web Console application_ and then use those credentials to login.
3. There are 4 key sections to generate content for localization:
	1. **Maps**: This is used to create a Map which contains various games that can be generated by using the content uploaded in _Static Exports_ or _Variable Exports_ sections.
	2. **Static Exports**: [Placeholder for Importing the files]
	3. **Variable Exports**: This is used to build content by creating a _New Series_, assigning a unique name to the created series, uploading _.zip_ files that can be generated by using _Desktop Pubbly application_ and then using _Swap Interface_ for replicating or updating the content.
	4. **Stitch App**: This is used to create a `School`, `Subject`, `Lessons`, `Levels` which consists of `Units` and `Games` with difficulty levels which can vary as per the syllabus of the university. The files that are uploaded by creating _Series_ using _Variable Exports_ is then used by the _Stitch App_ for editing `Units` and `Games`. 
7. [Placeholder for Exporting the content].
8. Place the HTML, images and XML files in the _www_ folder of Cordova project.

### Cordova Project i.e. _CCI App_
1. Place the assets generated using _Pubbly Web Console application_ in _www_ folder of Cordova project which can be installed by following the instructions in _INSTALL.md_ file.
2. Ensure that the folder structure is like [EnglishWebRoot](https://github.com/XPRIZE/GLEXP-Team-CCI/tree/master/Cordova%20schoolHouse%20app/EnglishWebRoot).